Add documentation for SMS integration (#11826)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/sms.markdown

---
title: "SMS"
description: "SMS notification via GSM modem."
icon: gammu.png
ha_category:
  - Notifications
ha_release: 0.105
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: false
ha_codeowners:
  - '@ocalvo'
---

The `sms` integration allows having a local execution SMS notification via [Gammu](https://wammu.eu/gammu/). This is ideal when the internet is offline or when the power goes out.

This integration provides the following platforms:
- Notify

## Configuration

To enable those notifications in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sms:
  device: /dev/ttyUSB2

notify:
  - platform: sms
    name: sms_person1
    phone_number: PHONE_NUMBER
  - platform: sms
    name: sms_person2
    phone_number: PHONE_NUMBER
```
{% configuration %}
device:
  description: The gsm modem device.
  required: true
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

To use notifications, please see the [getting started with automation page](/getting-started/automation/).

> It requires HassOS version [3.6](https://github.com/home-assistant/hassos/releases/tag/3.6) or higher.

Reviewer: Still have the same comment as before (which you've marked resolved without comment). Can't it be used by non-HassOS users?

Author: Yes, this can be used it by non-HassOS users

Author: Added more info for non-Hass.io users

Check that the modem is recognized by running:
```bash
ls -l /dev/*USB*
```

> Note: In hassio you need to install the SSH add on.

Author: Hass.io

## Required Hardware

You will need a USB GSM stick modem.

> ### List of modems known to work:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### List of modems known to work

```

---

> title: "SMS"

Reviewer: This title should match the title of the integration as set in the integration manifest file.
Right now, this is way to generic.

Reviewer: You marked this conversation as resolved, but didn't change it.

Could you elaborate?

Author: I am sorry, don't understand what are you asking me todo.
Do you mean we need a new name?

description: "SMS notification via GSM modem."
icon: gammu.png
ha_category:
  - Notifications

> ha_release: 0.104.4

Reviewer: We don't release new features in patch releases, furthermore, that version has already been shipped. Maybe just update it to the upcoming version.
```suggestion
ha_release: 0.105
```

ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: false
ha_codeowners:
  - '@ocalvo'
---

> The `sms` integration allows to have a local execution SMS notification via [Gammu](https://wammu.eu/gammu/). This is ideal when the internet is offline or when the power goes out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `sms` integration allows having a local execution SMS notification via [Gammu](https://wammu.eu/gammu/). This is ideal when the internet is offline or when the power goes out.
```

This integration provides the following platforms:
- Notify

## Configuration

To enable those notifications in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sms:
  device: /dev/ttyUSB2

notify:
  - platform: sms
    name: sms_person1

>     phone_number: !secret notify_sms_person1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    phone_number: PHONE_NUMBER
```

  - platform: sms
    name: sms_person2

>     phone_number: !secret notify_sms_person2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    phone_number: PHONE_NUMBER
```

> ```

Reviewer: Please remove the secrets instruction.

And the screts yaml:
```
sms_person1: "+1NNNNNNNNNN"
sms_person2: "+1NNNNNNNNNN"
```
Replace the NNN for the actual phone numbers

To use notifications, please see the [getting started with automation page](/getting-started/automation/).

> It requires hassos version [3.6](https://github.com/home-assistant/hassos/releases/tag/3.6) or higher.

Reviewer: HassOS is misspelled.
```suggestion
It requires HassOS version [3.6](https://github.com/home-assistant/hassos/releases/tag/3.6) or higher.
```

This is kinda misleading since not everybody uses HassOS, and I'm quite sure this can be done on other operating systems as well.

Check that the modem is recognized by running:

> ```

Reviewer: Missing code language flag.
```suggestion
```bash
```

> ls -l /dev/*USB*

Reviewer: How would Hass.io users do this?

```

## Required Hardware

You will need a USB GSM stick modem.

### List of modems known to work:
- [Huawei E3372-510](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01N6P3HI2/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)(
Need to unlock it using [this guide](http://blog.asiantuntijakaveri.fi/2015/07/convert-huawei-e3372h-153-from.html))

> ### [List of modems that may work](https://www.asus.com/event/networks_3G4G_support/)

Reviewer: Let's not make this a heading.
```suggestion

[List of modems that may work](https://www.asus.com/event/networks_3G4G_support/)
```

### Note about Raspberry PI 4
On Raspberry PI 4, you need a udev rule in the config USB stick, for the [Huawei E3372-510 stick](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01N6P3HI2/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1) for it to be recognized.
This config is:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```txt
```

udev\10-gsm-modem.rules
```

> ```

Reviewer: What is this second block? Why are there 2 blocks? And where do they go?

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```txt
```

ACTION=="add" \
, ATTRS{idVendor}=="12d1" \
, ATTRS{idProduct}=="14fe" \
, RUN+="/sbin/usb_modeswitch -X -v 12d1 -p 14fe"
```

## More details:
- [Original thread discussion](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/send-sms-with-usb-gsm-modem-when-alarm-triggered/28942/38)

> {% configuration %}

Reviewer: This is the configuration, which should go into the "Configuration" section, but there is no mention of how to use this?
